---
layout: post
title:  "First Stop: Medellin"
date:   2016-01-08 15:39:40
preview: http://placehold.it/300x300
images:
  - image_path: https://s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/amax-blog-photos/medellin/moto.jpg
    title: New Bike
    description: Honda XR150
  - image_path: https://s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/amax-blog-photos/medellin/church.jpg
    title: Some Big Church
    description: Honda XR150
---

{% include photo-gallery.html %}

I landed in Medellin on the night of December the 29th at 2 in the morning. I was eager to get to a hostel and see the city and other travelers but I also had hundreds of dollars worth of gear on me including laptop, dslr and satnav in three large bags and didn't trust it at a hostel. So I got a hotel where I could get a room with a locking door until I could meet up with a friend in the city the next morning and lock it all up at his apartment. I was exhausted and had surreal taxi ride through through thick jungle foliage and thicker fog to a small Hotel outside the city called Case Mosaica (add link). Casa Mosiaca had a cool old farm house feel and was covered in hand paited ceramic tiles.
<br>
The next day the hotel arranged a ride to the city. When the car popped out of the hills of Santa Ellana outside the city to make the descent into Medellin I got one of the craziest city views I have ever seen in my life. The hills rise up to 6000 ft over the city and you can see Medellin end to end from the top.
<br>
I dropped a bag of clothes off at the Tiger Paw hostel in the Foreigner heavy El Poblado neighborhood (more than 50% foreigners) and took my bags of riding gear and gadgets to my friend's apartment in the south of the city. He helped me get setup with a Colombian sim card and we ate a traditional colombian meal of carrot soup, rice and a pork chop. We went back to El Poblado that night, went bar hopping and did some shots of the local licquor `aguardiente` which tastes like ouzo.
<br>
We stayed out until about three and I went to pee in an alleyway at the end of the night when a police motorcycle with to cops pulled up behind me and told me that the alleyway was not a bathroom. The had me put my hands up on a wall and grabbed my wallet straight out of pocket to `check my id` and it was missing a $100 when I got back. It seemed pretty steep given that people were blatanly selling large volumes of cocaine in the street less then a block away but I'm sure they had already paid their bribes. Not much I could do and I was happy no to have had anything worse happen so I went back to the hostel and passed out.
<br>
The next couple days were spent wandering around the city, eating tons of dirt cheap food, checking out motorcycles for the upcoming trip, and going out at night with troves of European travelers who seemed to be subsisting mostly off of cocaine, which to be fair is cheaper to consume then food in medellin. El Poblado is swarming with traveling candy vendors and literally every single one of them is dealing cocaine.
<br>
After a couple nights of going out culminating on new years at an awesome hillside dance party over looking the whole city I moved to a new hostel in the quiter College neighborhood of Laureles and the next night into a $20 a night airbnb.
<br>
John, the guy I am going to be riding with at the beginning of the trip, arrived on the 4th and stayed at the airbnb with me for a couple nights. We spent the next couple days motorcycle shopping and I finally settled on a bike: a brand new Honda XR150 for about $2600. 150 is definitely a little smaller then I wanted to get, but it got me a brand new honda which hopefully means I won't spend a lot of time dealing with mechanical issues on the trip. I'm nervous about how it's going to deal with the weight of the aluminum side cases and all the camping gear but I think it will make it.
<br>
Hopefully I'll get to see a little bit more of the city in the next couple days and maybe have a day riding the bikes offroad somewhere around medellin before we leave. Then it's off into the rest of South America.